Strengthen governance criteria for incubation and graduation (#2265)
cncf/toc: .github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/template-graduation-application.md

<!-- (Project assertion goes here) --> 

> - [ ] **Commit to an annual governance health check on maintainer organizational composition.** _(A lightweight self-assessment to detect post-graduation governance concentration trends early.)_

Reviewer: ++ could be great for `.project` integration perhaps?

Author: Agreed, a `.project` integration for the annual health check would be a natural fit. The graduation status refresh proposal I am drafting includes automated monitoring through LFX and CLOMonitor that could feed into a `.project` file or similar machine-readable format. Will follow up on that as a separate initiative.

Author: ++ added

<!-- (Project assertion goes here) --> 

> - [ ] **Project maintainers from at least 2 organizations that demonstrates survivability.** _(Verified through [LFX Insights](https://insights.lfx.linuxfoundation.org/) organizational dependency data, not just the MAINTAINERS file.)_

Reviewer: Insights has come a long way but worth recognizing that it still paints an imcomplete and sometimes inaccurate picture. I don't know if we want to communicate LFX insights as the primary source given that projects cannot take actionable steps to change current state if misrepresented. 

I agree with the intent here though and might alter the language slightly:

```suggestion
- [ ] **Project maintainers from at least 2 organizations that demonstrates survivability.** _(Verified through the current project maintainer list, including affiliations. Use [LFX Insights](https://insights.lfx.linuxfoundation.org/) where available to corroborate organizational contribution patterns; explain any unavailable or conflicting data.)_
```

Author: Yes! Appreciate the re-framing @brandtkeller

Author: Adopted your re-framing. Updated language uses the maintainer list as primary source and LFX Insights as corroboration, with a prompt to explain unavailable or conflicting data. Pushed in ca29dd8.

<!-- (Project assertion goes here) --> 

> - [ ] **Document and demonstrate an org-balance mechanism for governance decisions** _(such as org-balanced voting, steering committee with org caps, or equivalent structural protection ensuring no single organization controls governance decisions regardless of maintainer composition. See [Org-Balanced Voting](https://github.com/cncf/project-template/blob/main/GOVERNANCE-org-balanced-voting.md) for a reusable template.)_

Reviewer: For reviewers - the proposed [Org-Balanced Voting](https://github.com/cncf/project-template/pull/53/changes#diff-8e937e0a6e221a3e00ed6fce6666e759f49774a778a6c1ed3995756859d3b5c9) doc is in a PR.

### Suggested

N/A

### Required

> - [ ] **Contributor ladder with multiple roles for contributors, demonstrably producing maintainers from outside the dominant contributing organization.**

Reviewer: The reality of projects is that there is a dominant organization - I get that. Do we want to perpetuate that in the language here? How does a project with no dominant organization satisfy this?

Author: Fair point. Reworded to remove the assumption of a dominant org. New language: "Contributor ladder with multiple roles for contributors, with demonstrated evidence of the ladder producing maintainers from more than one contributing organization." A project with no dominant org satisfies this by showing their ladder has produced maintainers from multiple orgs, which is exactly the healthy state we want. Pushed in ca29dd8.

Author: Updated again in 19c285c to add "as applicable" -- final wording: "Contributor ladder with multiple roles for contributors, with demonstrated evidence of the ladder producing maintainers from more than one contributing organization, as applicable." This handles both cases: projects with a dominant org show cross-org ladder progression, and projects without one are not forced into language that does not fit their situation.

> - [ ] **Contributor ladder with multiple roles for contributors, demonstrably producing maintainers from outside the dominant contributing organization.**

Author: ```suggestion
- [ ] **Contributor ladder with multiple roles for contributors, demonstrably producing maintainers from outside a dominant contributing organization, as applicable.**
```
